The ideas below are more in the realm of brainstorming that were
accumulated during the last couple months. I will try to give this
document structure but some of the concepts are connected to other
topics as well.

There may be many seemingly unrelated things under the VISION
section, mostly because I couldn't really find a single category
for them that felt right.

VISION

     TR2 could be the (or an) online audio aggregation point for the
     print-impaired community, providing access to

     * news sources

     * original content (podcasts, plays or something brand new)

     * 3rd party audio content sources by mirroring other popular
       audio content sites (collaboration opportunities)

     * federal, state, municipal etc government alerts, announcements,
       news, events

     It could be multilingual and multinational, serving minorities
     (e.g., hispanic, hmong, chinese, japanese).

     The service could be made available to the non-impaired for
     a fee that gets donated to non-profits or pay to for-profit
     services involved in the project.

     DISCUSS: * What would be the best course: use the TR distribution
                model and make the platform available to others to deploy
                the way they like, or a single online service that is
                built on collaboration with other organizations?

              Personally, I prefer the latter because of the notion of 
              a unified representation that could be a state-wide service
              but it would have it's challenges:

              * finances could become murky (grants, donations etc.)

              * how would it operate? Committee?

              * How to coordinate collaboration?
                (non-profit, government, media, 3rd party etc.)
                This is also interesting from a technical
                viewpoint.


EASIER CONTRIBUTION

  1) Send the recording to the email address of the service as
     an attachment and a script reads the metadata and inserts the
     file into the system.

  2) Make short-term or periodic availability recording easier by
     not enforcing mandatory assignments. Assigning publications
     to a remote reader avoids duplication but it results in very
     poor utilization as sometimes only a couple articles get read
     in a month. Plus it is never immediately apparent when a
     volunteer quits.

     DISCUSS: Should duplication be allowed?

              Safeway ads are the perfect example as currently it
              is read by 2 people because listeners have different
              tastes. By allowing duplication, each listener would
              be able to pick their favourite reader and would make
              some technical choices easiser. Although the unread
              articles then would need to be made more attractive 
              somehow.
              Add "bounty" on them? see PLAYFULNESS.

              Would this open a can of worms?

     So the notion is to make cherry-picking available for remote
     readers as well. Established readers would still have the 
     opportunity to preserve a publication for themselves but this 
     would come with extra responsibilities such as consistent number
     of articles recorded (e.g., three-fourth of a magazine), high
     recording quality and so on. See PLAYFULNESS and QUALITY sections.

     This way it would be possible to provide volunteer opportunities
     to 
       * students to complete their community service goals
       * volunteers who would like to try out the service but may 
         change their minds later

     Probably this would also result in a better quality service (or
     at least, a more consistent one) because, as stated above, assigned
     but not read publications (possible due to lack of motivation or 
     dislike) hinders the opportunity of others to read.

     IDEA:
       By collaborating with media sources (see 3RD PARTY COLLABORATION)
       or by using volunteer help, article stubs would be added from
       different publications and these could be picked by a prospective
       reader. Available and already read articles would be clearly
       highlighted.

       An article stub consists of a representation of the article on the
       web page (or mobile app) and a preliminary recording containing the
       title, author name, byline, date etc. The representation of an
       article could be a link, a scanned image of the printed version
       and so on.

       By selecting an article, the reader can either read the
       full article or opt in to only read the main content and the
       preliminary recording with the article details will be added
       automatically.

       DISCUSS: The former option is probably not a good idea
                if we would like to create a service with highly
                consistent content.

  3) Make it easier to create new categories and/or publications.

  4) Allow referral submission.
     For example, someone finds a good podcast that she thinks
     would be a great addition to the service.

  5) Integration with other platforms
     For example, Voice Memo is installed on the iPhones by default,
     therefore sharing that recording with TR2 could be just by
     pushing a button.

  6) Browser plugins to streamline recording.
     For example, a plugin could embed a button that would start
     the recording process to TR2 on the spot without any hassle.

     There could a be a status bar to show whether an article
     has been recorded or not, how many times, interest etc.

  7) TR2 "boxes"
     There's internet in almost every home. The occupants may not
     be tech savvy but many people use the net indirectly without
     them realizing it (e.g., smart devices). Some of our volunteers
     opt in to record through the phone system because that is the least
     intimidating option.

     There could be a Victor Reader-esque device with large and
     obvious buttons to record (and/or listen), preconfigured with
     that persons TR2 credentials. Listeners could use this (or 
     similar) device too to listen to content with the envisioned
     service features (see LISTENERS). One of this feature would
     be to accept voice commands.

     This device could be built very cheaply using a Raspberry Pi
     Zero for example that costs 5 dollars. On the other hand, by
     providing step-by-step guides or blueprints anyone would be able
     to build it by themselves if they are interested in it, or if
     they do not agree with our selection of hardware or for any
     other reasons. The software would be open source, so they would
     be able to even tailor it to their needs or send feedback.


LISTENERS

    * Subscribers would be able to query content by title, author,
      publication, topic, keyword etc., preferably with voice
      commands.

    * Users could compile playlists.

    * Allow to leave comments. (see QUALITY)

      DISCUSS: Should there be any emphasis on the social aspects?

               I imagined that users would be able to interact with
               each other (e.g., chatrooms, forums) where they could
               socialize. It may also help some clients to engage in
               practicing AT and overcome their anxiety.

      (This section is short because I lost the note that I kept
       carrying around...)

QUALITY

     Allowing easier contribution would require quality assurance
     (QA). By QA I mean audio quality and that recordings conform
     to common guidelines such as civilized behaviour, appropriate
     content etc. In addition, currently there is no QA process
     other than the Access News admin sampling some of the recording
     when there's time.

     QA could be achieved on multiple levels:

       * Using an automated script checking for "bubbles", distortion,
         etc.

       * Creating a new volunteer activity to check recordings.

         This could be one non-monetary(?) way for non-impaired users
         to access content. Although there would be strict conditions
         they would need to adhere to.

         Impaired users would also be able to give voice to their
         opinion:

       * By getting feedback.
         This has to be easy enough and reachable from any part
         of the process (either in a mobile app or on the website).
         For example, allow recording an audio comment, that would
         also be made visible by voice-to-text.

       * Allow requests.
         This is pretty close to feedback but still.

3RD PARTY COLLABORATION

    Allow local or non-local companies (stores, newspapers, goverment
    etc) to sign up and publish their content using their own readers.
    For example, the NFB and the Economist distribute audio this way.

    On the technical side these entities would require an account of
    some sort to operate under their own names.

PLAYFULNESS

    1) Implement something similar to Stackoverflow, Vocabulary.com etc.
       but it does not necessarily has to be that significant. Opting
       in would be on a voluntary basis.

       Basically award points and/or achievements and/or badges for

       * submitting quality recordings (readers)
       * checking submitted content    (readers)
       * listening to articles         (listeners)
         e.g., "cosmopolitan" badge if user listens
               to diverse topics
       * referring useful 3rd party sources (listeners, readers)
       * anything that that we can think of and that could be
         perceived as fun.

    2) Games

       For example, bingo by finding specific news. I had some
       other ideas as well but these are still obscure even to
       myself.
