TR2 IMPLEMENTATION PROPOSAL WITH COST/TIME ESTIMATE

I. Overview of the proposed TR replacement

    Web-based services hosted in the cloud for subscribers to listen to
    audio content and for readers to generate them.

    Main services:
    1. Web-based content delivery
    2. Web-based recording
    3. Legacy phone service for subscribers and readers who opt out 
       of the web-based solution.


II. Proposed stages of implementation with time estimate

    The stages below are not meant to be rigid milestones where previous
    stages have to be completed in order for the next one to start.

    The estimated delivery below refers to a stable bare-bones
    service that is ready for public testing (as the delivery assumes
    passing internal tests).

    Guide to interpret the dates:
      * If the date seems to ambitious: the implementation should be
        relatively straight-forward.
      * If the date seems overly cautious: tools have been selected
        but familiarity with the problem domain is low.

    The dates have been determined with immediate start and with at least
    20 hour of implementation work per week.

    STAGE 1: Central digital audio repository

    STAGE 2: Web service to access online content
             (extensible with new formats)

    STAGE 3: Online recording capability

    STAGE 4: Provide native apps on other platforms
             (Android, iPhone)
    
    STAGE 5: Replace TR phone service completely


III. Cost estimate

    Predicted ceiling with all sub-services implemented and running with
    high usage: $600/month. This estimate is derived from web-hosting
    (or server costs) and phone usage costs.

    For the servers I chose the Google Cloud Platform as a starting point
    based on past and current experiences. To start out, I recommend
    2 servers (one for development and one for production) with a humble
    configuration (1 CPU and 100 GB storage each) and with the total cost
    of $54, if both server is running 24/7. Because only running time
    is billed and parts of the active development can be done on local
    SFTB machines, the servers would only be up for short periods of
    time. The production server would start running constantly after
    STAGE 2 is ready. Resources can be added if needed anytime for any
    duration. For example, extra CPUs or memory can be attached for the
    testing server for 2 hours, and the extra cost would only be billed
    for those 2 hours.

    Phone related costs based on Twilio's current prices and average
    reader minutes based on people who deliver content via phone lines:
        Average minutes/month: 4157, rounding up to 5000.
        1 toll-free number:                    $2
        Received minutes to toll-free numbers: $0.0275/minute
        Programmable call recording:           $0.0025/minute
        TOTAL: $150 (= 5000 * 0.0275 + 5000*0.0025 + 2)

        NOTE: This cost is assumed to kick in once the phone system part
              of the current TR system is implemented (Summer, 2017).


IV. Requirements to start the project
    
    As of this moment, the only requirement is setting up a Google account for Society For The Blind.


V. Brief description of proposed stages

    STAGE 1: Central Storage

        Create a central storage service as consolidated destination of
        digital recordings from remote readers.

        RATIONALE:
        Currently, digital recordings have to be collected from
        multiple sources (e.g., e-mail attachments, google drive,
        dropbox etc.) that makes maintenance time consuming.

    STAGE 2: Online recording capability

        Make it possible for readers to record online by visiting the TR2
        website where the recording would be saved directly to the central
         storage.

        RATIONALE:
        See STAGE 3 RATIONALE.

    STAGE 3: Extend/integrate STAGE 2 on other platforms

        Either create native iPhone or Android apps or integrate with
        default applications (e.g., use Voice Memo app on iPhones to
        record and add an option to upload to TR2, if possible).

        RATIONALE:
        90 % of the new readers embrace the idea of digital recording but
        they struggle to get their readings back to us. This means extra
        admin time for "tech support" communication. STAGE 2 could help
        by allowing people to open the TR2 recording service in their
        browsers (iPhone's Safari, Android's Chrome etc.) but it adds
        cognitive overhead of learning a new tool. Enabling readers to
        use applications they're are already accustomed to would reduce
        this overhead. This stage would also add a maintenance overhead
        on our part to always make sure that our native app or integration
        solution is working even as these platforms keep evolving.

    STAGE 4: Online service for subscribers

        Similar to STAGE 2 and STAGE 3 but for listeners.
        Envisioned features:
        * speech recognition for navigation
        * easily extensible menu with text-to-speech
        * ability to tag content
        * create playlist
        * leave audio comments (audio and text via speech-to-text)
        and add many more gradually once a base system is running.

    STAGE 5: Replace TR phone service completely

        Create a phone service in the cloud for legacy access with as
        many of the online features above as possible.
