The ideas below are more in the realm of brainstorming that were
accumulated during the last couple months. I will try to give this
document structure but some of the concepts are connected to other
topics as well.

---

TR2 could be the (or an) online audio aggregation point for the
print-impaired community, providing access to

* news sources

* original content (podcasts, plays or something brand new)

* 3rd party audio content sources by mirroring other popular
  audio content sites (LOOK_INTO: collaboration opportunities)

* federal, state, municipal etc government alerts, announcements,
  news, events

It could be multilingual and multinational, serving minorities
as well (e.g., hispanic, hmong, chinese, japanese).

The service could be made available to the non-impaired for
a fee that gets donated to non-profits or pay to for-profit
services involved in the project. (LOOK_INTO: legal requirements?)

TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION

    * Distribution model

      (1) TR distribution model
          (make the platform available to others
          to deploy the way they like)

      (2) Single online service with a central steering committee
          that is built on collaboration with other organizations.

        Personally, I prefer the latter because of the notion of 
        a unified representation that could be a state-wide (or
        nation-wide) service but it would have it's challenges that
        would need to figured out For starters:

        * finances (grants, donations etc.)

        * Coordinate collaboration

        * legal challenges
          (non-profit, government, media, 3rd party etc.)

        * many more things

EASIER CONTRIBUTION

  1) Multiple methods of submitting recordings

     * Send the recording to the email address of the service as
       an attachment and a script reads the metadata and inserts the
       file into the system.

     * Upload audio files (some volunteers prefer their own recording
       methods)

     * Record online on TR2's volunteer website
       (IDEA:
         * integrate the online content of subscribed publication with
           the recording app
         * offline web application leveraging client-side storage
         * LOOK_INTO: specifications for Progressive Web Apps
       )

  2) The article is the default assignable unit

     Currently remote readers are assigned entire publication but
     because of poor volunteer retention rates content goes stale
     by the time we get word that the reader abandoned the project.

     Make short-term or periodic availability recording easier
     instead by allowing cherry-picking and only lock the single
     article that is being read. This would also make short-term or
     periodic volunteering easier such as but not limited to:

       * students to complete their community service goals

       * volunteers who would like to try out the service but may
         change their minds later


     DISCUSS: * Should duplication be allowed?

                Safeway ads are the perfect example as currently it
                is read by 2 people because listeners have different
                tastes. By allowing duplication, each listener would
                be able to pick their favourite reader and would make
                some technical choices easiser. Although the unread
                articles then would need to be made more attractive 
                somehow.

              * Make "boring" content (such as store sales ads) more
                attractive.
                See PLAYFULNESS.


  3) Make it easier to create new categories and/or publications.

  4) Allow submission of referrals

     For example, someone finds a good podcast that she thinks
     would be a great addition to the service.

  5) Integration with other platforms

     For example, Voice Memo is installed on the iPhones by default,
     therefore sharing that recording with TR2 could be just by
     pushing a button.

  6) Browser plugins to streamline recording.

     For example, a plugin could embed a button that would start
     the recording process to TR2 on the spot without any hassle.

     There could a be a status bar to show whether an article
     has been recorded or not, how many times, interest etc.

  7) TR2 "boxes"

     There's internet in almost every home. The occupants may not
     be tech savvy but many people use the net indirectly without
     them realizing it (e.g., Google Home, Siri). Some of our volunteers
     opt in to record through the phone system because that is the least
     intimidating option.

     There could be a Victor Reader-esque device with large and
     obvious buttons to record (and/or listen), preconfigured with
     that persons TR2 credentials. Listeners could use this (or 
     similar) device too to listen to content with the envisioned
     service features (see LISTENERS). One of this feature would
     be to accept voice commands.

     This device could be built very cheaply using a Raspberry Pi
     Zero for example that costs 5 dollars. On the other hand, by
     providing step-by-step guides or blueprints anyone would be able
     to build it by themselves if they are interested in it, or if
     they do not agree with our selection of hardware or for any
     other reasons. The software would be open source, so they would
     be able to even tailor it to their needs or send feedback.


LISTENERS

    Subscribers would be able to

    * query content by title, author, publication, topic,
      keyword etc., preferably with voice commands

    * could compile playlists

    * leave comments. (see QUALITY)

    * get location-based suggestions

      DISCUSS: Should there be any emphasis on the social aspects?

               I imagined that users would be able to interact with
               each other (e.g., chatrooms, forums) where they could
               socialize. It may also help some clients to engage in
               practicing AT and overcome their anxiety.

               Also there is interest on both sides about the others:
               volunteers crave feedback from listeners and listeners
               would like to know more about volunteers.

QUALITY

     Allowing easier contribution would require quality assurance
     (QA) that recordings conform to common guidelines such as civilized
     behaviour, appropriate content etc. In addition, currently there is
     no QA process other than the Access News admin sampling some of the
     recording (when there's time).

     QA could be achieved on multiple levels:

       * Using an automated script checking for "bubbles" (period of
         silences), distortion, etc.

       * Creating a new volunteer activity to check recordings.

         This could be one non-monetary(?) way for non-impaired users
         to access content. Although there would be strict conditions
         they would need to adhere to.

         Subscriber could also volunteer to participate.

       * Streamlining feedbacks

         Leaving feedback has to be easy enough and reachable from
         any part of the process (either in a mobile app or on the
         website). For example, allow recording an audio comment,
         that would also be made visible by voice-to-text.
         An example for the latter is SoundCloud.

       * Allow requests.

         This is pretty close to feedback but still.

3RD PARTY COLLABORATION

    Allow local or non-local companies (stores, newspapers, goverment
    etc) to sign up and publish their content using their own readers.
    For example, the NFB and the Economist distribute audio this way.

    On the technical side, these entities would require an account of
    some sort to operate under their own names.

PLAYFULNESS

    1) Implement something similar to Stackoverflow, Vocabulary.com etc.
       but it does not necessarily has to be that significant. Opting
       in would be on a voluntary basis.

       Basically award points and/or achievements and/or badges for

       * submitting quality recordings (readers)

       * checking submitted content    (readers)

       * listening to articles         (listeners)
         e.g., "cosmopolitan" badge if user listens
               to diverse topics

       * referring useful 3rd party sources (listeners, readers)

       * anything that that we can think of and that could be
         perceived as fun.

         For example: article roulette

    2) Games

       For example, bingo by finding specific news.
MISC
App would scan the tutles and name the ecorsings automatically
Allow recording in chunks and app would concatenate them when submitted
